---
layout: post
title: "Retrograde"
date: 2084-01-13
---

Outside, the sky was always black.

Pollution and haze darkened the atmosphere, masking the entire sky in dull shades of black, gray, and brown on a daily basis. Besides the rain, weather was basically non existent here. Weather had become binary. Nobody ever asked "How's the weather today?" It was always just "Is it raining today?" The last time it snowed had been years ago, so far long ago that the new generation had never even witnessed it in person.

That's why it was alarming when the sky began to rain ash.

I knew it wasn't snow. Snow wasn't chalky. Snow melted away into liquid water when it made contact with my skin. I can remember that. I caught some of the ash on my hand through the small window hatch I'd opened. It stained my glove white in small flecks of smeared dust.

I turned to face the window in the direction of the city, the only valid location I could think of that could host a large scale fire enough to project ashes in my direction. I lived on the outskirts, deep in "No Man's Land", as I called it. This place was a barren nuclear wasteland. Multiple generations of my family lived on this same plot of land. I'd grown too attached to give it up, so when the bombs hit years ago I ended up taking shelter underground and resurfacing later to rebuild the place. Haphazardly, scraps of metal and rebar covered in tarp made up some kind of dam-looking structure suspended in a dried out ravine in the ground. The winds were harsh here at times, so building out on the surface in the wind was difficult.

I wrapped my scarf tight around my head and lowered my goggles over my face. Tapping the left side of my head, a headlamp came to life on my helmet and I reached into my cabinet to fetch my jacket. Stepping into my boots, I stood still for a moment while they fastened themselves. That never got old. I remember my grandfather telling me stories of how his generation joked around saying they missed out on those things; the auto-fastening straps were more of a novel technology from movies. I clamped the nearby window shut with a metal hatch on the wall and headed for the hatch door on the ceiling. If things looked bad enough, I was going to have to build myself some kind of ash cover. The last thing I need is to be buried under a foot of dust and debris.

The hatch opened with a slow groan and I hauled myself up over the edge. Immediately ashes began sticking to my clothes and I grumbled to myself in frustration. This would be a mess later and I hate messes. Climbing up the edge of the hill, the full skyline view of the city began to take shape. As expected, I could see fire from here. This is why I lived on the outskirts. The only time anybody ever bothered me was when they got too noisy messing around near the city. I'd rather not have a nuke hit my house dead on. Having one land nearby was destructive enough already. I started tugging a large tarp over the dome frame that covered the hatch back to my place when my helmet radio crackled to life:

"ATTENTION. EVACUATION PROCEDURE SUSPENDED. CIVILIANS BELONGING TO DISTRICTS 0, 1, 3, 4, 6, 10, 14, 17 AND 25 ARE INSTRUCTED TO ENTER YOUR LOCAL UNDERGROUND FALLOUT SHELTERS IMMEDIATELY. ALL REMAINING DISTRICTS ARE TO IMMEDIATELY TAKE COVER IN THE NEAREST BUILDINGS FOLLOWING--"

The broadcast was cut short by radio interference and static, preceding a mechanical feedback wail and a series of beeps. I could hear a roaring scream of aero-braking spacecraft far up above me, a sound that caught me off guard. I remembered seeing air shows when I was a young child and the sound was reminiscent of the jets pulling complicated flight maneuvers. I trained my vision on the clouds, trying to see the source of the noise. Orange lights flickered inside the formations like a lightning storm over me, gradually getting closer and closer to the city.

Tripping over some metal scrap near the entryway to my house, I hurriedly began working the mechanism on the hatch door. I did *not* want to be around for when those missiles hit. Somebody was wanting to do some serious damage to the city if they were willing to raze it with fire and bomb the remainder with an arsenal of ballistics. Slipping inside, I fastened the hatch shut behind me and hopped into my seat near the observation bay I constructed. I was able to scavenge a large sheet of reinforced blast glass that was not only bullet proof, but relatively nuke proof. By the time I was inside, the "missiles" had already entered the sky below the clouds and I was able to get a better look at them. These didn't look like ballistics though. Oddly, they had more of a blunt cylindrical canister shape. Almost as if...

No.

These things weren't dropping explosions. They were dropping people.

Soldiers, perhaps? Chemical warfare?

I watched as a few fell short of the city, impacting the hard rocky ground just short of the cliffs that bordered the city. I had the feeling this place used to be an ocean, but all the water had long dried out. Closer to me, a few more pods impacted the ground but it was impossible to see where exactly. There was so much dust and fog being kicked up that they might as well have exploded on impact like smoke grenades. I silently hoped I wouldn't find myself homeless in the next five minutes because of one crashing through my roof.

Right on time, I jumped about half a mile out of my seat as a huge impact resounded near me, shaking everything with a massive blast and dislodging some of the scrap metal in the ceiling above me. I ran to grab my rifle and double checked I had enough ammunition to wound an assailant at the very least. If my predictions were correct, the vessel should have impacted below me and I'd still have a view of whatever it was from my observation bay by the time the dust cleared. sure enough, the entire window was blocked by a dusty cloud of soot, ash and dirt. Despite the window being transparent, I felt a lot safer behind it than anything else. I hadn't even managed to chip the material to test it and it broke my hydraulic press in the process to really drive the point home. It was tough stuff. The dust was starting to settle and I tried to scan the ravine.

Eventually, the silhouetted outline of a cabin began to take shape about 40 feet out at the bottom of the ravine under me. I didn't see any movement and panicked for a moment thinking that it might be explosives or chemicals after all. As more dust cleared I was able to make out a reflection on the side of the capsule and soon picked out the frame of a door surrounding it. My original intuition was right about the purpose of this craft. There was something -- or someone -- inside that was going to be outside very soon. The rocket had entered the ravine pointing retrograde. I could see a path carved in the terrain in the opposite direction of the massive thruster on the back where it had slid momentarily after contact.

I tried to tune the radio in my helmet again but I was only getting harsh feedback. It had been about 10 minutes since the thing landed and nothing had happened. At first I thought I would try to investigate, but caution took hold of my thoughts when I remembered whatever sent these things wanted the city dead. Just in case, I began to shut down all the lights inside and watch the window from a distance. Everything had gotten much darker and the ash was falling thicker. I remembered I hadn't taken off my outdoor gear because of the rush to get inside, so I lifted my helmet off my head and unraveled the scarf from around my head. Placing them on the desk nearby, I wiped the sweat from my forehead.

Suddenly, 26 minutes after landing, the hatch opened. I held my breath as I watched a few glowing ambient lights activate inside the capsule. A mechanical arm reached out of the doorway and found a handle nearby on the exterior and hauled itself out. The thing pulled itself to its knees and took a quick survey of the area. It paused for a moment when it looked towards the observation bay, but I figured it couldn't see me. Visibly, at least. The glass was one way and completely black on the outside. I didn't know how well thermal wavelengths could travel through the glass, but I hoped it hadn't detected me anyways.

After a moment it hopped down onto the ground and lifted its foot out of a pile of sand that had partially broken the landing. It looked like it was unarmed, but I didn't want to take my chances. It was most definitely robotic, but it looked like a human besides the obvious mechanical features. It carried itself delicately and moved in an organic fashion, which gave me an uncanny feeling of curiosity. This was an advanced piece of machinery. It had a sleek black glass mask covering the front of its head that ended at a sharp point near the top. It was built slim and looked like it'd be quite agile given the right situation. After a short delay, four more climbed out of the pod and hopped down to face the first. They looked like voyagers landing on a mysterious planet for the first time.

I grabbed a pair of binoculars and tried to get a better look at the group. Something felt off about them. They almost didn't seem dangerous. Why would these things be sent unarmed into a burning city? Perhaps they were sent in to aid the rescue effort? The city wouldn't have called off evacuations if that were the case. Calling off an evacuation is something that only happens during active nuclear threat. One of the robots climbed back over the side of the capsule and entered again while the others began to wander around to get a look at the ravine. I watched one walk up to a large rock and lift it straight out of the ground without looking strained in the slightest. I could have sworn I felt my jaw hit the floor in awe over the sudden but equally casual feat of strength. The boulder had to have weighed several hundred pounds at the very least. It placed the rock back on the ground gently and carried on inspecting the area.

It was only a matter of time before they made their way closer to my home, but oddly they didn't seem phased by the metal constructions. I thought maybe they wouldn't have much of a concept of civilization, as though my bunker was just another natural creation. These things didn't seem Earthly, so it wasn't *too* far fetched. My mind wandered to the thought of how the glass would stand up to the impact of an attack by one of these robots, and I shuddered. I don't know if the glass would be able to withstand such force. I looked across the valley towards the city, but the ash was so thick I'd lost sight of it completely. I couldn't even see the glow of the flames anymore. In solitude, I watched hopelessly as the crew of four robots made their way to my house. The fifth still hadn't left the landing capsule. I nervously released the magazine from my rifle and checked that the bullets were in fact still there. Locking the mag back into place, I put my helmet back on, and lowered the goggles over my face.

My heart pounded hard in my chest as the robots passed by directly below me, stopped, and looked up at my hideout in unison.

*God, protect me.*