---
layout: post
title: "Labs"
date: 2084-01-12
---

*Drip.*

The lights beaming down the hall began to flicker.

*Drip.*

Deep underground, a laboratory had become blocked off from the surface. Gas had long ago filled the winding corridors. For 43 days, Uriel, once a respected scientist among peers, had barely survived the accident ending the lives of his colleagues. He knew he had been forgotten, or else help would have come weeks ago.

*Drip.*

Allowing his gaze to shift downwards slowly, Uriel read the display on the oxygen tank. Shakily, he activated the locking mechanism and switched over to the tank. Pressing his back to the machine, he threw the shoulder straps on one at a time and disengaged the tank from the bay. For the last time, he would set out.

*Drip.*

It had taken 43 days of wandering on foot through the desolated tunnels and hallways that made up the underground labs, but he had finally discovered the device responsible for the gruesome execution of his fellow colleagues. Backup lights illuminated the base of the structure in the center of the cavern. A crude staircase was sculpted up out of the ground, leading to the center of the base. Activating the room lights from the keypad on his suit's arm pad, the cavern was engulfed in brilliant light. He would finally witness the device again.

*Drip.*

An ominous round frame jutted out of the base of the structure, geometrically sharp along the edges. The metallic appearance of the frame had an iridescent wavy blue pattern that shifted through shades of violet and cyan as he approached. He recalled, upon discovery, an attempt was made to activate the portal. After a quick success, a follow up attempt was made to send an object through. During the second activation, literal hell had broken loose.

*Drip.*

Russel, colleague to Uriel in the lab and lifelong friend outside, had been instructed to activate the controls on the panel engraved on the left side of the portal. Somebody Uriel didn't personally know would be activating the right panel. As the controls were set, a dark orb began gradually absorbing light in the center of the frame before an opaque, glowing crimson liquid began to pour out of the orb, filling in a thin window to what lay on the other side. Before anyone could properly set up the object that would travel through the portal, a being emerged from the other side. Nothing about it made sense. It was impossible to look at without searing pain shooting deep through the skull, and it had no describable appearance. It was quite literally incomprehensible.

*Drip.*

Screaming haunted Uriel's thoughts as he quickly shook the memory loose and placed a foot on the stairs. If the being that dragged Russel back in was going to be the one to take him as well, he did not care. Uriel was already on borrowed time. Reaching the top of the steps, Uriel took hold of the ropes he fixed to the controls earlier and gave a hard tug, setting the mechanisms into action.

*Drip.*

Standing one foot away, the portal emanated a surprising amount of heat. Turning to face the opposite direction. Uriel took one last look at Earth.

*Drip.*

One last look at the readout for the oxygen level on his tank.

*Drip.*

It read five percent.

*Drip.*

Uriel closed his eyes, paused for a moment, and stepped backwards through the threshold.

*Drip.*

Two kilometers above the surface, rain continued to pour. The runoff from the massive metal structures covering the surface entrance had been draining into the elevator shaft.

*Drip.*

There was plenty of space for the water to slip past the loose debris, so much so that most of it had collapsed and spread away at the bottom of the shaft. Gas continued to fill the lab.

*Drip.*

The gas that filled the lab...

*Drip.*

Was air.

*Drip.*