---
layout: post
title: "2084: Underground - Intro"
date: 2018-01-12
---

## Introduction

Gray.

The concrete built up around me was barely enough to contrast the bleak, dark skies that slipped through narrow gaps between the tall buildings of this district. It was January, but rain continued to pound the gutters lining the edges of the streets, highlighting neon strips of road lines and shop signs hanging from the walls to my right. The street wasn't very busy at this time, but due to the narrow walkway I had to keep flicking my vision up momentarily to keep myself from colliding with any of the oncoming foot traffic.

I was making my way to a popular area in this district, known for the vibrant nightlife in an otherwise boring city. Unfortunately, recreation wasn't my goal. Turning my wrist over, I checked for any updates on my target via the holographic display that dimly lit up my arm. Seven minutes out. I wasn't a hitman or anything, although, I'd argue my line of work can be just as dangerous. It definitely has its moments. In fact, I'm quite sure a number of people would be happy to put a hit on *me*. That's beside the point though. I specialize in making sure I put the right people in the right place at the right time, following whatever instructions I've been left and collect my pay. In most cases I get my work done quickly and easily and not all of it is illegal. Today was going to be fairly straightforward.

Rain ran down my jacket as I ducked left under an archway and off the street. The lights on my jacket and shoes were a soft white, just enough to illuminate the rain around me and the wet pavement under my feet. I'd stolen a military jacket to assist me on my jobs. White wasn't the default idling color for the military, so I'd made some modifications to ensure I wouldn't stand out in public. In fact, there were actually places that specialized in replicating different outfits for stylistic purposes, to be made available to the general public. I looked no different than any other regular in costume, however, this was no costume. This jacket had much more. Military jackets were completely bulletproof and had technology that warned the wearer about conflict in various levels of severity by flashing colored lights. Yellow was the default military idling color, and blue signified moderate danger. The color orange was reserved for severe aggression, usually due to nearby friendly causalities.

I took another left and found myself standing in a bit of an opening between a few buildings, much like a courtyard. The city was packed densely so I took the opportunity to catch my breath and survey the area. I could tell I was standing in the remains of the foundation of a building that had been torn down. I had the right place. A surveyor would be arriving here in about 6 minutes to pass a building inspection and grant a permit for a company to begin construction of a club here. The competition employed me to make sure I got here first to fail the inspection and report back to their higher-ups under the identity of my target. Before I could get myself ready, I heard a noise that piqued my interest. A lot of people were gathering nearby, and it would make this job impossible to complete. I couldn't risk being seen knocking some poor soul out and stealing their credentials. I turned to face the source of the noise.

I caught a glimpse of a crowd gathering at the end of an alley opening up to a neighboring street. Crowds can never be a good thing here, since most people tend to mind their own business. I took off with a start, catching brick in the rubberized tips of my gloves as I scaled the edge of the alley wall quickly and carefully. Nobody noticed, and nobody ever does. I'm rarely caught anywhere I'm not supposed to be and today would be no exception. The roof was thankfully not very slippery from the rain. Warm air blew through my hood out of a radiator vent I passed by on my way to the edge of the roof. I had enough traction to keep myself steady as I peered over the edge to get a better look at the crowd.

That's when my breath caught in my throat.

From about five feet away over the lip of the roof was a mechanical monstrosity. It clung to the side of the building with massive metal spikes, glistening purple, blue and red against the neon streets below. I barely had time to get a good look at it before I took a massive step back, avoiding the gaze of not only the creature, but the crowd. It was humanoid in shape and robotic in every other sense. I'd never seen something built to look so menacing up close. Intricate motors whirred to life as one of the three-foot long spikes disengaged and retracted from the wall, pulling chunks of concrete out with it and sending them crashing into the crowd below. It hadn't seen me. Or at least, I hoped it hadn't. At the rate it was moving, It wouldn't be long before I'd have company on the rooftop.

That's when things got bad. Very bad.

An ear piercing warning siren split the air around me and jolted me back to my senses. To my left I could see red flickering lights illuminate the rain drops as the source of the noise drew closer. The military was arriving and I had to get out of here fast. I slid down the back edge of the roof and rolled onto a section of scaffolding attached to the next building over. Quickly regaining my footing and keeping my momentum up I continued to flee back into the alley. Parkour wasn't just a past time for me, it was often the only thing keeping me alive. I'm not exactly the kind of person that wants to be around when the military arrives. Additionally, the surveyor would call off the inspection as required by the military, so I needn't worry about failing my objective.

Before I could bail completely, rifle shots rang out nearby. I figured the military was firing at the beast on the side of the building. Keeping my pace, I thought back to how dangerously close I was to the thing. I realized I'd never seen anything like it before.

*What was it doing here? Where did it come from?*

Everything but the military presence was screaming at me to investigate. Vaulting over a pair of metal ducts protruding from the roof I crossed, I started hearing screams.

The screams were not behind me, however. They were from below.

They were human.

This was very, *very* bad.

If there were more than one of those things...

And they were attacking people...

I cursed under my breath and detoured right to get a better look at what in the Hell was going on below me. There was a small ledge carved along the side of the building to my immediate left, but the rain would make traversing it suicidal so I kept tracing the perimeter of the roof for a more open spot. At this point, there were so many sirens I could no longer tell what direction they were coming from. Heavy military presence was not ideal. Also, heavy military presence was rare enough that I knew this was getting serious. Four handgun shots sounded off at the back of an alley from below me, to the right. The military never uses handguns, so there were regular civilians defending themselves at this point. I silently prayed to God that there weren't more mechanical abominations like the one I saw on the roof earlier.

My journey was cut short when the lights on my jacket flashed red and I dove to find cover to protect myself. I'd never seen it flash red before. Before I had time to think about what red could mean, black concrete exploded directly over my head. I rolled to the right and felt wetness seep through my pants where my knees met the roof tiles. I spun onto my back and had a look at my attacker.

God hadn't answered my prayer the way I'd hoped.

Towering above me was a robot identical to the one earlier on the side of the building, with three-foot long curved metal spikes pointing out from behind the ends of its arms where hands should have been. Bent backwards at the knees, it had joints that poised the thing up like some bastardized mechanical feline. The torso was armored lightly. Pistons and tiny gears pounded around inside the thing, visible wherever the armor was absent. I met its gaze. More so, I met mine. A sleek, curved black glass pane covered the front of what should have been a face, reflecting my terrified expression. The helmet terminated at a sharp point at the top, with a vent lining the area underneath the chin and above the neck. It was breathing; steam escaped the vents in rapid short breaths as though it was a predator finally catching its prey. The smell of copper was so thick I could almost taste it.

It stayed still for only a moment before it yanked the metal spike out of the concrete above my head and grounded itself, resting on all fours. The head tilted to the right and came closer. Eerily, I felt like it was studying me from the inside out, as though trying to decide how and when it would end me. Backed up against a wall, I dared not move a muscle or I'd be risking impalement. I may be moderately dangerous myself, but I'm not invincible. I watched in horror as 6 rifle like barrels popped out from the perimeter of its head radially, rotating to fixate directly on my face. This was the end. Instead of a hail of bullets, red laser beams clicked to life. They skittered around, analyzing my features, before they suddenly turned green and shut off.

After a short pause, the creature rose back onto two legs and took a step backwards. In disbelief, I did the same, brushing wet gravel off of my jacket and pants. I turned to face the thing once again. It stood approximately two feet higher than me. I had the feeling it wasn't going to immediately kill me, so I let out the breath I'd been holding and wiped rain from my face.

"What are you?", I spoke carefully.

I had no idea if it would understand me, but I had too many questions screaming internally, wanting to be answered so badly I couldn't contain them anymore. To my surprise, a blue light came alive beneath the glass, and it uttered one word.

"Afraid."